Earlier I said you have like five six
companies that owns everything. I think
they make 30 billion in revenue per year
selling this data. And so let's go
actually one step beyond in the stack.
Let's just not source some type of data.
Let's create this new type this data
ourselves and then still do the same
thing of sending this data on check.
[Music]
Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast where we ask your
favorite builders the questions you wish
you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neonnewtoday.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode, we're joined by Mark Tielement,
the director of the Pith Data
Association, an independent entity
working to build out the Pith network
ecosystem. In this conversation, we
discuss the vibes at the recent ETHC
that took place in CAN, why
decentralized financial data
distribution is so important, the types
of asset Pith network delivers price
feeds for, onboarding, TRDFI, the types
of data publishers and their
significance in the Pith ecosystem, how
Pith is able to support over 100 chains,
and so much more. Just a reminder,
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
and that the guest or host might hold
tokens discussed in any given episode.
You can check out a full disclaimer at
neonnew.com.
And if you enjoyed this episode, please
rate and review it on your favorite
podcasting platform and share it with
friends and family. Every rating,
review, like, and comment helps us reach
more people and bring you more of your
favorite guests.
With all of that said, I really enjoyed
this conversation with Mark and I hope
you enjoy it too. Hey everyone, welcome
to the Smart Economy podcast. Today
we're joined by Mark Tielemont, the
director of the Pith Data Association,
which is a group of contributors to the
Oracle Network that strives to deliver
highfrequency real-time financial market
data from institutional-grade sources to
smart contracts across various different
blockchains. Mark, it's so good to have
you today. Hey, how you doing,
>> Jim? Jim, thanks a ton for having me.
Very excited to talk to you today and uh
for sure we're going to have a a
fruitful conversation actually.
>> Yeah, absolutely. We were we were
definitely riffing on the different
conferences that we went to um before we
hit record and I think before we even
get going um you were recently at ETHC.
So just what's like the general vibe on
the ground for like Ethereum excitement?
If you were on crypto Twitter last year
or even the beginning of this year,
everybody was doning on the network
saying it was dead. They hate the token
price, but like this is still one of the
most robust networks of developers. So
what were the vibes like? Are are are
you feeling the change from like the
shift in the EF like disseminating down
to the people? Definitely massive pivot
like mentally and vibes uh over the past
two weeks and like you nailed it. A year
ago it was in Brussels and like vibe was
everyone was complaining on the timeline
why there why that you had other
ecosystem kind of growing crazily
whether even already hyperlquid back in
the days or others VM like Solana or sui
and yeah like the past 10 months 11
months were very felt hard or harsh for
the dirties let's say but yeah for the
past couple weeks and ECC market like it
was like the vibes were pretty much at
alltime high. It almost felt like I mean
maybe I'm exaggerating but I was at
break point that first ever breakpoint
in like Solana 21. It was like alltime
high and it felt like surreal. ECC
wasn't that surreal or that level of
like surreality. Um but amazing like so
many builders most of the top let's say
100 200 protocols chains were present in
size. you had very little more BS's
things around. It was very like longtime
builder and like actual institutions and
not just like couple big investors or
like I'm just visiting etc. like you had
that Robin Hood day. So you actually
have like big traditional companies like
not only like coming and seeing what's
the vibe but getting involved in like
shipping actual products whether it's
the full DeFi ethos I don't know or
we'll see but at least they they use
some great tech so that's that's been
great and I think even post SEC like my
past three days of timeline were just
thread about how great it was how
everyone is like up only on every
levels. Um, and I think it's like you
can speak it into reality. Like one
thing was like, okay, now everyone's
mentally ready to like grind. You see a
bit of success. So, I think it's going
to be a very positive like feedback
loop.
>> Cool. I think one of the things that a
lot of folks at the local Ethereum
community here in Denver was upset or
frustrated about at ETH Denver was that
we did see these multiple blockchain
networks. We saw booths that were
sponsored by L2s that were sponsored by
alt L1's. Um was was that sense there?
Was there like people frustrated that
there was something other than Ethereum
at ETCC?
>> So that's a good question. I I did not
see like as far as I know there wasn't
like a comp purely competing VM event
like I don't think I've seen any Solana
SW orus events. Was there L2 for sure?
uh they're a bit everywhere and you have
like linear was there like in force also
um but it felt like you didn't have also
like very very OG chain so I think it
was way more kind of yeah I very much
Ethereum Ethereum somehow also like
being in can you price out so many other
kind of companies into doing side events
etc so you of those side events it was
mostly done by things that everyone
knows whether it ZK sync linear etc. So
I don't think you had B I mean I had no
one telling me oh why why is this L2 is
doing this event I'm not going etc. So I
think it was also part of the all right
so everyone's kind of more bullish
Ethereum let's put for one week our blop
or rent problems in between L1 L2 on the
side let's just all right Robin Hood
like L3 like or barely no one went on
Twitter or told me in real life oh yeah
but they're actually underpaying is
security anytime so you kind of have
these two I mean I think yeah one thing
I've learned from Mikey Hill here the
founder of the labs entity that
contributes a lot to P network is
everything you read on Twitter just it's
not real life and I had no one last week
telling me oh no Robin Hood's rent
seeking or like underpaying their rent
for Ethereum security so it's more like
people community kind of understood with
hyper liquid like it's product product
product of course you want it to be as
decentralized permissionless as possible
but it could be fully like best tech
doesn't always win
>> mh
>> you can win and improve on the tech. Uh
so I think it's I mean that was Solana
mentality from day one kind of product
oriented and now I think like both learn
a bit from each other. Solana way more
into the decentralization part etc. like
core engineering
um and Ethereum now more into the all
right it's we can have good enough UX
like end user performance let's just get
some user
>> cool I'm definitely looking forward to
delving into uh Ethereum and Salana and
the differences between the networks
that you have to deal with on a
day-to-day basis um but I think you also
bring up probably one of the number one
points that anybody who's on crypto
Twitter should really reiterate and that
these people are not real like The anon
is not going to say the shitty thing to
your face that they say as an anon on
crypto Twitter. They're probably going
to be a cool real person and have a
realistic conversation with you at one
of these events. Um, but before we delve
into Pith and and everything else, thank
you for giving us like kind of an on the
ground overview of what the vibes are
like at ETHC, let's just take a little
step back. What's your genesis into the
blockchain industry? When did you first
hear about Bitcoin, Ethereum? If you
were like me or so many other people,
you just kind of like looked past it and
continued on with your life until you
had an aha moment. So, what was your
genesis? And then if you had one, what
was your aha moment?
>> I first ever kind of read or heard about
Bitcoin 2017 legacy or I mean mainstream
classic media. Bitcoin alltime high.
this internet fugazi money is worth 20k
or whatever. So that was my first thing.
I mean I had never heard about it. So I
was like okay and I wasn't very much a
finance guy back then or into finance
and I was like okay I don't care. I was
still I mean I was just starting college
back then anyway it's not like I had
money to invest. So I was like anyway
did my studies classic moved to Hong
Kong and pretty much got into crypto
pure chance pure karma changing
apartment I moved into a new thing in
Hong Kong. Hong Kong is like one of the
most expensive rent out there. So you
always kind of share an apartment and
the second bedroom was actually an OG
Australian guy. He was like within the
first 10 employee of Bitmax
um from back in the day. He was my age,
so I guess like 21 at the time. Um, and
he pretty much hooked me up on crypto,
but from the let's remove the middleman,
let's not trust bank and government
angle. And for the first like six months
year, so that was like 2019, I was just
trading stuff. And the first like coin
or network I sincerely loved was Monero.
I was like oh you can have this complete
like transfer of value fully private
like this should be what like finances I
don't want like why should the
government know like could know all my
balancees
etc so very much I was monero I was like
this is amazing but like just kept
trading stuff um covid crash happened so
I bought my first like coins back then I
was like okay must be a kind of a good
time after 80% flush defy summer also
kind of like blossomed into something
crazy and it was my first opportunity to
just like use those coins I had bought
pretty much and be like okay now I can
manage my own finances completely like
trusty it might go to zero next week I
might get fished I might get hacked but
I have full power of my over my finances
it was stock like comparison versus the
little money I had now on my in my bank
account in Hong Kong or in France where
you're like it's a nightmare you have to
go open an account somewhere or you pass
to your banks, you ping them, they reply
like two hours after after the weekend.
And I was never interested in doing
this. Now that I could like wholly
manage myself and have like instant
access to any type of assets, uh quality
of these asset wasn't that great in
2020. um was like what hooked me onto it
was like anyone and we're lucky enough
like us in like westerners in Europe in
the US most of our banks don't don't
fall every year our currency don't fall
like 50% every six months so arguably we
needed the we need this blockchain this
D5 technology the least I mean apart
from some edge cases but when you
actually like having live lived in uh in
Asia and visited also a Africa at some
point like it's a complete different
world and overall it was just like every
crypto project says we need to on board
like one billion people. It's mostly
like just bank or I mean not bank but
bring on chain billions of people like
give them access to financial product
and like have them decide. So pretty
much it was all my moving place getting
hooked because let's get rid of the
middleman using it and it like fell in
love and after like it was like how did
I stumble onto PT uh because I joined
like uh early 21 so over four years ago
now again out of luck like one of my
friend was working a lot uh and helping
Mike Hill the founder of the labs um and
he was looking for someone in the
trenches uh and he was like okay I need
someone my friend was just like okay I
know this guy Mark should talk to him
and it started like this over four years
ago and so now my work daily work is
defy defy let's kill the middleman let's
everything on train and it it doesn't
even feel like work
>> yeah I mean that's the beauty of of
being in this space the thing that
really attracted me was that I didn't
love the field I went into after college
I loved studying in school and that's
the thing I love about blockchain and
crypto is there's something new every
day that you really have to study and
keep on your toes to be relevant in this
industry. And I also really appreciate
that you bring up the point that
Westerners don't need crypto and
blockchain. The only time in the seven
years, eight years I've been in this
space that I absolutely needed crypto
for anything was when I visited Shanghai
and I had to pay some friends for dinner
because I didn't connect my credit card
to WeChat um or Alip Pay. So that was
like the only time in my eight years
that I've needed anything. So I think
that's like a really phenomenal kind of
point that you brought up. During this
in between time, what were you doing for
for work in Hong Kong and you know
between college and between joining
Pith? You were kind of like in a
marketing role in something in the in
this in this way. What made you realize
like okay I am done trading food coins
during DeFi summer. I'm going to go
full-time into this industry. and what
were you doing and how are those kind of
roles in your previous vertical how are
they applicable to the work that you do
at PIF data association today? So uh I
studied uh business management in the UK
like bachelor three years once I was
done moved to Hong Kong. So was 21 years
old and for three years I was working I
was working at GB a very different
industry the radiological industry gay
specifically like it's a like contrast
media company uh when you go do an MRI
or a CT scan sometimes radiologist is
going to inject you some contrast media
some fluid to see your cells or whatnot.
I was working in in this French company
in the like Asian branch in Hong Kong.
Um and this three was yeah mostly
marketing things like related things.
One year for example I was working a lot
on getting the Asian subsidiary to go
direct in India. So go create the the
Indian company there. So where do we
need people who do we staff train the
people etc like do the rep like all the
projections etc. One year was this,
another year was pure a bit more salesy
and arguably it helped me after in
crypto because I have no radiologist
background. I am like bad at sciences.
Um, and when you have to go pitch like
doctor like radiologist they do 10 years
of study I have like one month and you
have to pretty much pitch like drugs to
them. Um and so before reading white
papers, I was just reading like
radiology clinical paper. Uh it it it's
much harder than like crypto white
paper. But yeah, spent a ton just like
researching. I love like you I love
reading researching. If I could, I would
just do this like no no work just like
get more intelligent every day. So
actually this part of selling something
I had no clue about I think also help
helped me kind of get up to speed
because using DeFi is a very different
breed as selling defy services or or
whatnot. So yes, so this helped me a ton
uh into getting up to speed. And one
thing also where I was lucky was Hong
Kong. And this is another thing that's
almost a shame when I left this the
prior company cuz when I said okay I'm
going to leave for this crypto uh job it
was the first like no one said you're
crazy half the people were like oh so
you must know well the the cryptos etc
look at my wallet and what should I
write and so pretty much you have half
of this company and like 30 40 50 years
old that had like bunch of money into
crypto never ever even my uh like French
friend from back in the day barely no
one owns crypto. So, Asia is very
attuned to this finance life and crypto
life. So, this also kind of helped me a
lot. And um no, and overall I mean from
my study from like having mingled with
many like crypto people in Hong Kong,
the biggest regret of my life is not
having done like a CS major or a CS like
work because the computer is like the
most powerful tool on earth. You can do
so many things. I don't know how to use
it. Um and like this was at some point I
was like I should start learning on my
hand etc. But after you have to be like
a genius to make a real uh like impact
codewise. Uh but I was lucky enough to
have like I was a bit interested. So at
night I was just like doing crypto thing
reading docs trying to code a bit trade
a bit and pretty much all my friends
were crypto people. Everyone was telling
me just ditch your job like come work
full-time and it was mostly I guess a
mix of I'm spending more time doing
crypto stuff than my real job and then
it was still I mean it was all big raise
etc but you kind of knew that everything
could disappear quickly and it was kind
of this peace idea opportunity of and I
understood kind of the use case it was
very much more like a more than an infra
it was kind of the financial data
distribution business it's the one of
the biggest market on earth and it's
like a monopoly that five players are
like completely reaping the benefits
from. What if we can take out this or
completely redesign this? And so from a
very kind of all right, we're doing a
new chain to we're doing a new propex.
It was kind of a very real life tide
idea product that kind of helped me be
like okay I'm I'm fine. Let's let's go
do this. And as a big DeFi guy, Oracles
like I'm all I love my position as and
when I say this is Pith is available in
like a 100 blockchain. So I need to
follow as much ecosystem as possible and
I enjoy doing this and so it's kind of
what I was doing privately until 4 a.m.
Now I c I can just do it like fulltime
on this. So it was kind of yeah good mix
of parallel threads together. Yeah, Hong
Kong's a phenomenal place to kind of
have your awakening, professional
awakening for for blockchain crypto. Um,
I was there in 23. Uh, you have
Cyberport, which is just this funnel of
like a web 3 and tech corporate park
where a lot of companies just locate.
So, you have the universities funneling
students into companies that are there.
You have the government that has great
relationships with a lot of businesses
that are there. And then as you
mentioned, it's just such a an advanced
society in the fact that people are more
attuned to having crypto wallets and
having crypto on their wallets. Then you
also have this kind of like unique
balance of mainland is just a train ride
or a bus ride away. And so you have a
lot of people who might have
relationships with others on mainland.
And so you really have this kind of like
amalgamation of why crypto is so
important because maybe there are people
who do need to move funds in a way that
traditional rails won't offer them. So
that's kind of like a beautiful place a
part of the world to have your your
genesis story into starting your career
in this vertical. What I think is really
fascinating is how it just like vibed
with you that distributed data
dissemination is a valuable core part of
just like these networks, blockchain,
just in general. You mentioned that
there are five to six centralized
entities that kind of like rule the
world in terms of how data is
disseminated across different entities
and companies. So maybe we can use this
as a moment to just kind of like let's
eli five what a distributed oracle
network is and what Pith is just give us
like that elevator pitch and then we can
kind of like jump off from there
>> and maybe even before this five I'm
going to try to also tie the you
mentioned how important financial data
is and we've been using an example like
I live in Portugal and uh we have like
10 people working in the office there
and two months ago you had this big heat
wave in Portugal and Spain and it shut
down like electricity network for like a
whole day. When someone tells you, okay,
there's no more electricity on your
apartment, you just turn on like lights
and you're like, okay, so I guess I
won't charge my phone today. But when
you have like almost like national
blackout, like throughout your day,
you're going to feel it. You're going to
try to take the elevator down. Sorry,
not happening. If you have an electric
garage, your car not getting out. Sorry,
you have to work to the office. you ATM
sorry not working I hope you have cash
with you you kind of arrive to the
office nothing works like not even my
card or whatnot nothing works and
overall financial data is this for
financial markets it disappears like for
now you have a 5 10 hour blackout around
like this like this pure financial data
that gets distributed usually from
exchanges to traders the whole market
stops and this is kind of where we focus
mostly on is like It's I basic need I
mean high value basic need but it's
paramount and so PT overall we aim to
kind of be that we we now call it like
the universal price layer that aims to
power all these things in the back and
this universal price layer kind of infer
this decentralized Oracle network. Um
but PT core Eli 5 decentralized
infrastructure that provides I mean
right now just short of 2,000 price
feeds with sub millisecond
um refresh rate available
permissionlessly on over 100 blockchain.
So very much right now if you're a D5
builder on any chain you want to
integrate price feeds to power your D5
apps whether you have derivatives
product whether you have a board ending
you can integrate PT directly into your
app but the big kind of idea we have
more for PT is more than infra it's all
about the data because infra I don't
want to say it's that easy etc but it's
commoditized it's it's hard to get an
edge on infra or it's very expensive to
get an edge on infra. It's way easier to
get hedge on data. So this is where more
and more we see P more as a data
infrastructure than pure blockchain
infrastructure.
>> You bring up a a very interesting point.
A lot of people don't think about how
financial data is moved around. Like the
CME here in the US, they don't use the
internet. They use radio towers to move
information because it's actually
quicker than hardwired internet. I'm
sure you know a lot more about this
infrastructure than I do, but that just
highlights the point that we use these
things day-to-day. Americans have their
stocks, they have their uh you know
index funds um and these sorts of
investment vehicles in their 401k and
they don't think about how it moves
around. But this information does need
to move around um in like in a super
fast and safe and secure way that is
just beyond most of our heads. So we
won't delve into the infraide infraide
even though like a mesh network is
probably something that would be really
cool to delve into. I would also love to
hear if Pith has any relationships with
mesh networks
>> over on this to not expend too much and
it's linked to crypto. You should check
out zero. It's arguably I mean it's the
I mean I'm going to butcher the the
tagline but it's like the new internet
or the internet for blockchains and they
use submarine cables because that's like
radio wave is a big thing or submarine
uh cables.
>> I had Austin on the show when he was
still at the Salana Foundation. Cool. So
let's maybe then delve into the data. Um
there's there's a lot of data feeds.
There's a lot of different types of
data. What are you paying attention to
at Pith? Because when people think of
oracle networks, they're just like, "Oh,
I need a smart contract to know the
price of Ethereum or some sort of
external asset." When I was first groing
why oracles are important, um the
example that really started to make
sense for me was like, let's have this
Oracle network be able to query a
website and see and and have it tell
like what the temperature is outside and
then bring that data on chain for some
sort of trade that's related to
temperature. And that's kind of like
where I was able to elifive the the
importance of this. So what sort of data
and like why are oracle networks so
important in the tech stack of web 3?
>> I'll start with the latter. arguably
technically all blockchains are stupid
or maybe stupid isn't a good term or
like clueless uh free of knowledge and
Oracle are one way and arguably the
initial goal of Oracle is like fully
decentralized secure bring offchain or
like bring additional information data
point onto the blockchain so that smart
contracts code on the blockchain
protocol on the blockchain can actually
trigger specific action based on
different input they receive. The
biggest use case ever and arguably it
will I think for the like midterm will
stay the same. It's about price like
price of assets. Uh so on blockchains
and arguably on applications that use
blockchain we trade we take loan etc. So
most of protocols need to know what's
the price of Bitcoin, what's the price
of XYZ so that when you trade or I need
to liquidate I I can have a price update
and things can happen. So eight score
Oracle
pretty much do this and one aspect
actually and this is where we mostly
focus on is everyone's eyes around
Oracle is about this like
putting X data on chain. The thing is
how like what this X data like is like
how do you collect it? Is this data any
good etc and because if let's say you
imagine you have 10 validator node of an
oracle if they all look at a single API
like what's like you add a bit of
redundancy resiliency the guy that owns
the API could still put wrong value in
there that gets propagated. So like
Oracle network kind of resolve this
trust of sending data onchain so that
protocols can use it. But yeah the big
problem becomes how do you get the data?
What do you do this like what do you do
with this data? Um and so blockchain
enable people to build actual
applications protocol on the blockchain.
Personally we we kind of focus a lot
more on like the most valuable data on
earth. I mean maybe it's the health data
it's more likely oh the financial data
it's I mean funnier to do financial data
than health data I feel um so this is
where let's say all the big bucks are
and earlier I said you have like five
six companies that owns everything in
the trfy world think they make 30
billion in revenue per year selling this
data and so pith were more around like
let's go actually one step beyond in the
stack let's just not source some type of
data let's create this new type this
data ourselves and then still do the
same thing of sending this data on
chain. So, so that's why we're a bit
more in the data infrastructure because
we want to go create outright new data
rather than just transfer from offchain
API or XYZ whether it's weather etc to
onchain.
>> So, can we delve a little bit then into
these data publishers? When I always
look at blockchain networks, like
they're they're centralized networks
until you have enough of a distributed
validator base. And arguably, there's
only two real blockchains that have
truly distributed validator sets,
Bitcoin and Ethereum. So if you're
trying to kind of like
change the mold of how data can be
brought onchain and you're trying to
kind of compete with the traditional
model which is just leverage APIs and
whoever manages those APIs, what is Pith
doing? How is Pith trying to
revolutionize
um how data is created and stored and
then how it's brought on chain or maybe
even pushed on chain.
>> No, definitely. So the idea of PT is
going directly to those that create an
own financial data. Most of the oracles
kind of like you can go buy the NY API
if you want to and you'll contribute at
this 30 billion annual revenue. But pit
were like if you took like this story
comes from like tried five findings the
like trading firm like okay I pay 20
million per year to n I hate it because
without me without my bids and ask in
the order book like they wouldn't even
be working. So pretty much exchanges
centralized exchange like they have a
business they have infra etc but like
traders are a big part of why exchange
are successful. If you have no traders
like you have no volume, no fees etc.
But the worst part is with all this bas
spread all this trade the exchange
actually repackage the data and resell
this to traders. So it's kind of the
elephant meme of the loop. Someone gives
you something, you repackage it and you
just sell it set it back to and like the
first data publisher to the PTF network
were actually uh trading firms like
virtue the big like maybe not the
biggest but top three biggest worldwide
trader like all over the world like
think they trade like 20k assets uh from
Europe to Asia to US. GTS one of the
biggest option market maker in the US.
gem trading. We had Air Max, a big
exchange like FX Gold and also now
digital in the UK. But pretty much we
had a court of trading firms be like I
trade Apple stock every millisecond. I
own this data because it's my fields. If
we have enough publisher all
contributing this their own Apple fails,
you can actually create a new synthetic
price of Apple that's completely
decorated from NY etc. And you can
actually kind of recreate a new like raw
pure apple price. And pretty much this
when we understood this on the legal
aspect we're like okay it's amazing we
can create data from those that make
markets and just like sell it. So it's
almost kind of the Spotify I explained P
as Spotify to my pants. You have trading
firms people that exchanges can become
publisher like you can CIBO is actually
a publisher to the PT network. we have
all the US stock exchange that
contribute their midpoint to the pest
network and for them it's kind of more
like new data distribution mechanism
rather than like go to NY and pay for
and just have 10 different people do
that we actually like yeah go find those
trading firms that have this that it's
much more work initially but what's
funny in in in one two three in
traditional finance is once you sign one
or two competitor you have all the other
competitors I wanted they were like I'm
not sure I fully get what you're doing
but if they're in I must be in. And so
overall we managed to get over 100
publishers in couple years. In the past
two years we've lost a few. We've like
also started on boarding banks uh like
noral is a digital so the Japanese like
digital bank but yeah so very much our
edge is having been early with trading
firm big trading firm kind of
understanding this broken system on how
to source data overall after so I I
quickly mentioned but pretty much every
publisher continuously stream their
quotes of Apple Bitcoin any of the 1800
price feeds we have today every 400
millisecond on like what we call
pithnet. So the oracle runs on its own
app chain. So the other angle we kind of
do this is where the price aggregation
happens the uh and how people can then
use this price on any of the 100 plus
blockchain we've deployed. So we pretty
much have a specific purpose blockchain.
Each publisher is al also a validator.
So it's kind of if 10 goes down you
still have the oracle working. All the
prices get created. So they have like I
mean you have transparency, you have
accountability, you can you have a block
explorer for this Oracle chain. Nothing
happens there. I mean nothing happens
but the Oracle business and from there
you can actually fetch proof of these
prices and send them permissionlessly on
any blockchain. Uh so if you're a
developer on any of these chain you can
actually use any of these 1500 price
feeds without even like pinging us,
asking us anything. It's fully
permissionless to use both onchain and
offchain.
>> So maybe you might have already said
this in your explanation, but maybe I'm
just trying to like have the quiet part
said out loud. What's the incentive for
like CBOE or NY or these large trading
firms to publish their own data? Is it
that they get to own it and they're not
beholden to a third party? Does Pith
actually reward them? Do they get an
upfront financial incentive? Maybe you
could just kind of like say the quiet
part out loud.
>> Compared to four four years ago when you
start pitching to those big boys, the
it's a much harder sale than it is
today. So yes, and we have like
inconomics you can see like we have a
whole publisher world and ecosystem
group. So pretty much you can imagine
that early early on it was kind of like
get them involved get them to care get
them a stake in this arguably I don't
want like we're kind of competing long
term to Bloomberg but not so much but
like get them a stake in if you
contribute great data we could actually
recreate like a like such a big thing.
So early on it was kind of more stakes
but as like the network grew and the
publisher cohort grew it and like this
thing has to be s self- sustainable like
pretty soon. We still have like from the
publisher rewards like a whole five to
10 year budget where depending on the
number of data you contribute the
quality of it you actually get monthly
rewards in peace token up till now. So
the token went live November
23. Since then in dollar amount, so this
was paid in piss token, but in dollar
amount there was $60 million worth of
rewards given out to publisher. So it's
still, let's say pinuts in the big 30
billion market we want to tap into, but
it's already something. So yes like
everyone that becomes a pith publisher
gets like monthly rewards like from this
bucket uh that was pre-planned in the
token allocation and the other part is
an all job the uh I mean everyone's job
that contribute to pith is like generate
more revenue for the protocol itself
because long term this is like pith
network's governed by a dao like my job
is to get myself out of a job so that
you have so many other people involved
and just caring and I want to see the
network succeed that like it's one thing
I tell everyone at the association if we
do our job well we're out of a job but
in overall this is where we push right
now for lots of more revenue for the
protocol so that once those rewards dry
out let's say we have I don't know $25
million per year of rewards
like we need to have this revenue in
three four years at the protocol level
so that the protocol can then take over
and pay those publishers. But yeah, on
this we start thinking a lot like
earlier this year we started increasing
fees on chain. So whenever you do a
price update on any blockchain you not
only pay the gas fees but you also pay
an oracle fee. On some chain we have
like 10 cents I mean we've done some
test in prod
um where on like certain chain we
actually charge 10 cents per oracle
calls. um there aren't a ton of rack
calls but that's like one chain one user
must be $100 on this chain and then like
we have a product or stack that's very
well designed to be like serving as many
client as possible by client I mean
blockchain and beyond that it's more the
proliferation of chains of like arguably
we getting more and more for this web
two financial data business uh even the
more like retail friendly uh stuff like
the data you buy on AWS or something.
Maybe I'm being a bit hyperbolic, but it
sounds like by distributing rewards to
data publishers and also asking them to
pay for for Oracle calls, you're kind of
onboarding Tradfi. So, have you seen
instances where like someone from NY or
CBOE or any of these other like large
regulated financial markets across the
world had to have somebody reach out to
you guys and learn how to use
blockchain, learn how to use wallets?
like are you seeing at kind of a trady
level that you're onboarding these big
financial institutions
>> when they publish data to the poracle
like spit like the validator looked like
almost a Solana note because this like
this chain was a Solana fork because we
wanted to be pretty fast. So you had
like and recently we announced signum so
pretty super crypto friendly but
traditional bank in Switzerland Namura
or even I mean Sibo or MX like these US
stocks like they had to run like a
Solana lookalike validator that's pretty
different and then after when they have
to send like Solana like transaction to
send their price they're like can't I
just do like classic I post you API you
read etc. So we actually had bunch of
like stratfi engineers let's say in big
institutions. Yeah. Kind of digging into
how does a solena look alike. No is
after you on the usage side of the price
feeds it's more like being fully
permissionless first like usually we
discover especially on the institutional
side like six months after because the
offchain API like when you use offchain
it's fully free. So like you could be
Jimmy Diamond and quering the PIF
network API of chain. We wouldn't know.
So it was more recently like you start
seeing many like trading firm hedge fund
that were into like traditional assets
getting into crypto or at least having
crypto on the books. So they just need
to value it. They don't want to create a
whole pricing algo etc. Like we had the
couple piece publisher when they tell
you like oh I've been using your data
for like three months. you guys are
crazy giving it for free offchain. I
would have paid you like a [__] ton for
this because I save bunch of time. So
pure onchain usage not so much and after
it's more like I mean we do talk to a
bunch but usually it's either they're
going to launch their L2 L3 or sometimes
that one they want to have the Oracle
program like contract deployed on their
chain whether it's them using it in the
end or some other developers it depends
but more often and now it's like every
kind of institution does this now it's
more like using Oracle as like onchain
distribution. Okay, I have like the bid,
Black Rockck, Apollo like it's I have
tons of money. I'll put it here half a
billion for Black Rockck and maybe it's
even higher now. Like it I don't want to
say it's cheap change but for them it's
pretty much chip change and it's like
okay let's go see how like and we have
this bele price feed etc. How can it get
used in DeFi like onchain? think they
are still tapping their like fitting
like it's just the toes in the water
right now but where they get very much
excited and I mean from our perspective
is like and actually we now when we talk
to them about PT we focus way more on
the data side than the pure blockchain
only thing because um I mean most of
them are still kind of wait and see um
like Robin Hood like it's a whole maybe
we'll deploy the pithle on on Robin Hood
orbit L3 chain, who knows? Yeah. So,
it's still early for the pure onchain
stuff.
>> Would you say that where Pith is at now
is that it's actually providing a
solution to a friction that exists in
Tradfi whereas opposed to just the
history of blockchain has been creating
a problem for there to be a solution to.
>> Not coming from the traditional finance
world and the market data. It's just
weird that I'm not talking about this.
But when you're a kind of worldwide
company, you actually have like 20
different data vendors. One in the US,
one in the UK, one in Asia, one for
stocks, one for bonds, one for whatnot.
PH let's like off like let's create this
network and more blockchain ethos like
get the whole world come to cont the
whole world best trader to contribute
and create this massive registry of like
having 30,000 50,000 price fees trusting
tracing tracking all assets uh so it's
kind of more blockchain ethos let's say
uh but still I mean right now the whole
product runs on its own blockchain like
And but after you'll get more and more
whether it's purely permissioned like
centralized chain or I mean I think
we'll have to fully centralize
permissioned and fully like
decentralized permission because I
wouldn't be shocked if one day you get
to see NY launching their na chain just
to do like onchain settlement like there
won't be composibility there won't be
xyz but just so that everyone has a pure
track record public track record of who
cancel orders, who put orders, fields,
etc. And not have this big like black
box of oh, we have to cancel river
trades and then it's kind of your like
black box. No one knows what happens
about the exchange. But yeah, so here
and there you get some like still a few
institution but not the most that are
like making their assets on available on
chain or raising funds for any strategy
they could have offchain. So mostly it's
I would say it's still a bit I don't
want to say predatory but it's still
kind of money driven so far.
>> Very cool. So when Pith launched to me
from from just like a participant in the
broader blockchain space I kind of like
grocked it as the chain link for Salana.
So maybe we can talk about the genesis
of Pith. How did the entity or the
network start? you already kind of like
touched upon why Salana because Salana
has high throughput. It's very fast, but
like was the initial vision to just kind
of like be Oracle support for the Salana
ecosystem
and if so, when did the pivot happen to
support hundreds of chains? If not, um
what was just kind of like the natural
path for growth for Pith? So it wasn't
planned at all this whole evolution of
the tech stack but in hindsight I think
it was a natural and overall great
evolution first like pith product the
pithoracle first version I think was
deployed on solana mainet it must have
been April or May 21 and I mean it was
very much like back then we hadn't
thought that far ahead of how or what
piff could look like but it was more I
mean initially the pith raco was a very
I mean the infrastructure was insanely
light um our first day one was it was
just a smart contract we just happened
to have written it on like in rust for
solena etc but initially the python was
just like a smart contract on solena
where whitelisted addresses sl
publishers can send transaction with
metadata and the smart contract was just
at every block like receiving input puts
and producing an aggregate at the next
block. Um, and so publishers had to spam
the Solana network uh continuously so
pay so gas fees etc etc. So our V1 was
pretty much public smart contract that
can get spammed by all weight listed
publishers. And I mean it was super
light work, it was super easy, we could
go fast, etc. A couple problems if not
more than a couple. Being on a public
chain, you need to get the tokens and
like given the load and the frequency we
went we wanted like we wanted 400
millisecond every publisher every new
block new transaction etc. it became
insanely expensive like at some point if
you remove all the consensus vote like
in Solana like you have 3,000 TPS uh I
think onethird of it is like not fake
TPS but it's consensus like consensus
votes it's not like user interaction
votes so pretty much you have 2K real
TPS back in the day I think the P
publisher in on average they were doing
in between 50% and twothird of the real
TPS when so is at
It's okay. When sold at $250, it's less
okay to spend like I mean today would be
millions at like the pure ops cost of
running this on Solana would be millions
a day. So if ever we do this 30 billion
revenue we could have a DVO to come back
to native Sena but yeah like costwise
just not not doable and back then we had
like 10x less price fees and less
publisher. So yeah it would decrease.
Second part was
like there was a clear need for Solana
oracle when we launched. There was no
Oracle on Solana. Like the only DeFi you
had there was like one AMM, one club,
maybe one money market, but the money
market was like almost like the V1 of
Ethereum defi just reading from the AMM
or all the book and instantly
liquidating. So if you had market
manipulation like it was it was kind of
very risky but work. So it was more like
there was a clear need. We had the
contract ready. Let's let's go. Let's
let's just make it happen. There thing
is as like and the first year was great
because arguably when you have no
competitor the product sells for itself.
Very recently chain link very much kind
of entered Solana. Uh but yeah it took
like took them we had three years of
chain link free Salana for PT. So it was
kind of insight a good decision. Um and
the thing is I mean you had whole last
cycle brought kind of the good and the
bad on Solana first the down times. So
when you have a big NFT mint, etc., it
can go down. And when you're on Oracle,
I mean, if all your product or your user
on this halted chain, who cares? They
don't need a new price anyway. They can
do anything. But if you try to have
other people use your price feed,
whether offchain or on another chain,
the guy won't like after six down times
in three or six months, the Ethereum
developer will tell you, I I'll just
don't trust your oracle. Like at any
point, Solana goes down. It's not my
problem. I'm actually happy when it goes
down. But uh I mean your oracle and you
would drug my so kind of came from okay
what can we do from there as an oracle I
mean there could be an argument that you
have an oracle train you have your own
perex etc. You try to kind of make it
the whole super app or whatn not it's a
very different business we're like we
don't need to be natively or embedded or
enshrined on sana what do we know best
sana code. So let's just take Solana
code like for all publisher running
their validator like it's the same work
exact like almost exactly and pretty
much this app chain fork of Salana did a
few tweaks and it was launched in like
couple weeks and so after now we have
this I don't know sovereign block space
if we want to use big term but the only
thing is it just creates aggregate price
and alongside you have a proof of this
price and then after and this is where I
The past couple years P has grown a lot
in term of user base and this is where
like why we can be available on like
over 100 chain is we don't need or p
doesn't need infra on those chain you
just need to deploy smart contract on
that chain that enables to verify the
proof that the pith app chain has
created and so from there like arguably
we could have no sales team like you
could just read the doc fetch those
proof integrate pay as you go over time
and this like was what uh end of 22 I
think this move to the app chain and
like it was also the rise of all the
kind of GMX fork all those derivatives
you had derivatives protocol left and
right and this is where I mean you pick
if we were lucky or very bright back in
the day but with this app chain model
the pure design it's what we call and
you actually mentioned this earlier it's
a p on demand or pool oracle
meaning that it's the developer the
protocol's job to trigger and do price
update by themselves.
That means that on the positive side
that means that you we can actually
offer it's permissionless but the same
catalog of price feeds to everyone on
any chain. So it's not like you have to
not just oh uh I'm use I'm using your
BTC price on E on Ethereum. I need you
to turn on your BTC price on optimism
like so we had like at the in the age of
infinite L2s infinite copy pasta prop
dexes etc there was like the perfect
design don't need to call me anyone just
onchain on demand I have US stocks I
have Hong Kong stocks I have FX I have
gold I have crypto I have US yield on
any chain insight good pathway I feel uh
but yeah it wasn't that that planned
ahead uh that
>> super interesting that all the feeds or
kind of all the data just lives on your
app chain and then you just push that
onto the supported networks um which I
assume is just a smart contract that is
built on that network to be able to
interact with Pithnet. So, what support
do you guys have to do on your end when
you're implementing support for a new
blockchain, if any at all, other than
answering some simple engineering
questions? Do you have to review the
onchain activity, the clients that the
chain has, the SDKs that are available,
or do you just kind of let chains come
to you and then you just fill in the
gaps with the questions that they have?
>> Kind of both ways. In our early
multi-chain days, it was more like we
don't even reach out. We just deploy go
to this chain and go go make a name out
of ourselves and arguably kind of most
kind of company whether crypto or not
you start doing everything for free then
you're like okay you start getting
market share now time to monetize a bit
etc. But no, initially I mean we were
deploying left and right because again
as you me it's arguably if you have a
vanilla EVM chain it can be insanely
easy especially now that we have the
engineers that have been deploying code
like this same contract for a few years
now it's insanely easy to just deploy
the smart contract on the chain after we
could like very well deploy the smart
contract usually or let's say natively
we let's say and when I say we here the
the oracle itself can't push by itself.
We the peace data association don't
natively push price feeds for nothing
like if we get gas current etc. We can
do some intra services for people. Um
but no so I mean you can find some of
these 100 chain where the last price
updates on this specific environment
happened maybe six months ago. But the
thing is overall it cost us no nothing
to still have this smart contract there.
If at some point in the future one guy
want to start using it, he either can
like spin up the infra to trigger price
update himself or he can just reach out
to us and we can just either help him to
do it or just do it for for uh for them.
Overall, 98% of the time insanely easy.
It's just maybe twice a year there's new
features we want to to have added in the
smart contract. Uh and actually I mean
it's I can alpha this a bit. Um and it's
been requesting for a long time. So it's
just delayed the alpha. Soon we're going
to have like custom T-waps for all the
EVM chain. So usually apps use directly
the one the live streaming price. We
have a feature where anyone has the
ability to kind of create his own custom
T-waps based from the live prices. So
you can get a 5-second, 50-second, 10
minute tap. Um so it's mostly like the
onchain part is just yeah kind of
continuously reduce the gas consumption
so that it's cheaper for user add a few
feature uh but it's very little services
and it's more like usually chains
deployed contracts deployed on chain and
now we just try to find user to do the
price update themsel I mean and even I
rather than we don't want to run infra I
mean we can very well run infra but it's
also and it's more my spiel to the
developers I talk to is like why do you
want to rely on myself only like aren't
aren't we all here to just not rely on
other people we have put open source
code here you can just do it yourself we
can like help we can do build backup for
some time etc but just and it's true for
other oracles and I'm still somehow I
mean not everyone of course but shocked
at um like it's all the trust the hidden
trust I mean hidden deep somehow like
people don't want to look towards this
direction but like trust assumption. So
it's always a battle in between. Okay, I
want to give good UX. I'll do things
that likely you don't care if I do this
because you want good UX, but
arguably it's still kind of important
for me to uh it's not not that I want to
do less. It's just I don't want you to
rely on me.
>> You're building for a decentralized
world where anyone can contribute. I am
well aware that we're right up on the
edge of our time, but I did have one
final question um that I have really
been enjoying hearing from builders
within the space, and that is what are
some of the kind of narratives or trends
that are beginning to take shape right
now and that you're keeping your eye on
uh for the next year or two in the
blockchain space? What's really got you
interested? What do you guys where if
the if the puck is going somewhere and
you're going to skate to it, where do
you think that is? What's what's kind of
like the leading narrative that really
interests you right now? I
>> mean, it's not going to be anything new.
At least not in the past last month
because it's been the narrative. It's
the whole
tread fire world on
why I mean I mean the US are very ahead,
but right now what do you see like
onchain trading and arguably it's more
like a market of like stocks etc. But
it's more like putting the Trafy world
at the onchain world speed 24/7 market.
Um so it's going to take ton of time for
the Trafy world to actually implement
this like I think they already announced
245 but it's going to take two years
etc. So I think it's the perk overall
whether we I mean I think we can we're
going to have kind of the crypto world
or defy or blockchain world as we know
kind of split in two where it's going to
be very try but use blockchain
technology um kind of take some idea or
at least try to like make it 247 try to
yeah get it to the next let's say step
of the world I guess like I mean our
sons will ever understand like why were
they even market hours in trading like
just have bought trading for you. It's
not like you do anything. Um so we have
this world and we have the I think the
pure defy or cyber funk like going to
get a resurgence but it's going to have
to kind of branch out of what most
existing chains have become. Uh so yeah
I think everyone's going to talk about
yeah tright coming on chain. So
especially if you're in the like
financial world like you can smart or
the first ju just be the first uh to
come on chain. Um so yeah so anything
real world asset mostly around trading
I'm still not sold on will my house be
on the chain I houses are pretty liquid
that I'd love for and I don't own no
house so but like if you have a real pro
like value proposition it will happen
LWA trading try on chain makes sense 247
and that's going to be the big thing
other maybe a hidden narrative
privacy is going to get a little
resurgence like we and we've seen and I
for example with PT we kind of work a
lot also with paradex which is a
stockware stocknet based uh app chain
but decks and it was the whole like gym
swit on hyperlquid public position all
right let's just liquidate it um so
we're going to start seeing a lot more
of of these again whether it will be
embedded in the chain level some weird
and this is where I'm out of my breadth
uh IQIs with anything security but yeah
like start having like way more like
tooling and better tooling for like
bringing privacy on
>> I feel like I'm in good company because
there's so much in this space where I
feel like I'm out of my depth when it
comes to to smarts and IQ levels. So uh
nice to hear that confirmation. Mark,
this has been a fantastic conversation.
I've had a blast chatting with you. If
anybody's listening to this is
interested in reaching out to you um
where can they learn more about what
you're working on about Pith and how can
they reach out to you?
>> I mean best is the official website of
the network pith.network and you can see
the whole product all the users all the
partners at the bottom of the homepage
and on all pages you have all the
social. Whether you're into LinkedIn,
Telegram, Discord, maybe we even have
Reddit now, you'll find your home.
Discord's very active and like if you're
a DeFi guy, come there because we're on
so many chains with people running those
like D5 alpha or go use this protocol
using P on that chain, etc. Um, so
pith.network's the best. If you want to
find me personally, go on pith
dataassociation
uh.com. you'll have the whole team with
the links to my Telegram and uh Twitter,
but otherwise I mean you'll find me on
the in the Twitter trenches. If you find
someone that work with us either using
our data, not using our data, ask them
to connect us. Otherwise, Discord,
classic B discord, you'll find me there.
>> Awesome, Mark. It was great to finally
get this interview in the books. Thank
you so much for sharing your time with
us today. It was a great chat.
>> Had a blast. Thanks a lot, Don.
>> Cheers. Thank you for tuning in to the
Smart Economy Podcast. To stay in the
loop with all of our latest episodes and
insights, head to smart economy
podcast.com.
And don't forget to subscribe to our
YouTube channel for all of our video
content. If you enjoyed today's
discussion, please consider showing your
support by liking, commenting, and
reviewing this episode on your favorite
podcasting platform. Your feedback helps
us reach more listeners and bring even
better content your way. We'd also love
to hear from you. So, drop a comment on
Spotify or YouTube to share what topics
you'd like us to cover or who you'd like
to see as our next guest. And if you or
someone you know would make a great
guest, please reach out. We're always
looking for fresh voices and new
perspectives. And for our NEO token
holders out there, please consider
voting for NEO news today as your
council representative. We've proudly
been serving the NEO ecosystem since
2017, and we'll continue to do so by
putting portions of our council rewards
directly back into ecosystem growth
initiatives.
Once again, thank you so much for
listening to the Smart Economy podcast,
and we look forward to catching you next
time.